The last endpoint we'll learn how to customize is the metrics endpoint.
As we learned previously,
the metrics endpoint provides a number of useful
metrics about your running application.
We can customize it by adding our own metrics to the existing metrics.
There is a couple of different ways to customize the metrics endpoint,
but the easiest is to inject a MeterRegistry into the class that's generating
the metrics and then use or record the metric in that class.
Let's take a look at some example code.
Suppose we had a really complex service that had a long-running operation.
We know that the method takes a long time to execute and we want
to regularly record how long so we can keep track of it over time
and make sure it's not getting worse.
We can do that by injecting a meter registry and
creating a new named timer metric.
We can then use that timer to record the execution time taken by that method.
The MeterRegistry class comes from the micrometer library,
which is a technology agnostic library for collecting metrics.
It supports things like timers which we just used, as well as other metric collectors, such as counters or gauges.